# Extension Methods
This is a way to "inject" additional functionality to an existing class without creating new classes/types
LINQ provides all its functionality via extension methods 
In order to access the functionality of extension methods, all you have to do is include the namespace that the extension methods live in via using directive.
(ie: using System.Linq) 
- [MSDoc on Extension methods](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/programming-guide/classes-and-structs/extension-methods)

# Lambda Expression
Is a shorthand to create anonymous functions/methods. The left hand side before the arrow is your method parameters, right hand side is your method body/return statement. These expressions are used extensively in LINQ method syntax. If you want to create multi line lambda expression or do operations before you return, you have to surround your right hand side with curly braces. Then, you have to be explicit about what you want to return.
```csharp
x => x * 2
```
or
```csharp
x => { 
    int y = x + x;
    return y;
    };
```

is equivalent to
```csharp
int DoubleThis(int x)
{
    return x * 2;
}
```

## Delegates
Delegates are reference types that define method signature.
They are most often used to pass methods as method parameters (ie LINQ)

## Expression Body
shorthand for methods and properties similar to lambda in its syntax, except it's not
```
public override string ToString() => "string representation";
```

## Struct & Enums
These are how we create custom value types. If we used classes and interfaces to create custom references types, we use struct and enums to create custom value types.
Struct is useful for encapsulating small pieces of data together (dictionary's key value pair, coordinate) plus some behaviors.
In fact, int, double, float, all these are structs
[Struct vs Class](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/standard/design-guidelines/choosing-between-class-and-struct?redirectedfrom=MSDN)
[Struct Types](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/language-reference/builtin-types/struct)

Enum is useful for creating limited selection. Mapping a string to a numeric value. Or giving hardcoded limited choice to a selection.
[For parsing strings to Enum](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.enum.parse?view=net-6.0)
[Enum Design Guide](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/standard/design-guidelines/enum)

## Testing: Mocking
In order to unit test classes that have internal dependencies (Services, Controller, etc) we mock our dependencies in order to isolate the particular class we're testing.
For example, Services have dependency to one or more repositories in Data Access layer. If we were to instantiate the real repository class and invoke its method in service unit test, we're not only testing the service's code, but also repository's code. A bug in service layer as well as a bug in a repository layer can fail this test. 
In order to isolate classes, we mock the dependencies to return the result we would expect from successful call to the dependency. 

1. `dotnet add package Moq` in your Test project
2. `using Moq`